# QuizCraft

## Description

A quiz app where the user can decide the quiz topic by prompting the AI. The quizzes could be used for fun but also for practicing and studying (e.g. interview questions, exam questions etc.). Answers and questions are going to be in text based form.

It's supposed to be like a game rather than a website. Once your on the website you should be greeted and asked for a name. Afterwards you initiate the quiz with a topic and start the quiz.

## Features

* welcome screen asking for a topic
* input field for prompting the AI
* selector for setting the amount of questions
* Gemini API to generate questions with 3-4 possible answers
* give visual feedback for both wrong and right answers
* track the amount of wrong and right answers to create some kind of score
* visualize the results
* offer to start another quiz when a round is finished


## Tech Stack

* Gemini API(Model - Gemini 1.5 Flash)
* Vite (React)
* React Context for state
* Typescript
* HTML, SCSS
* Netlify (frontend hosting)



## AI Quiz Generation API feature

### Usage
1. Switch to the frontend directory:
```bash
cd frontend
```
2. Install the dependencies with:
```bash
npm install
```
3. Create a `frontend/.env` file with the following content:
```bash
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_api_key
```
> **NOTE:**
> You can get your API key from the [Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api?gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQjw7Py4BhCbARIsAMMx-_IbSjSUZIg4gAbOfmaRmAoGZFWrVv53JF4zEGSwxKRBkXcLFhCidqsaAhGmEALw_wcB&authuser=1) documentation. 
> You can also use the .env.example file as a template.
4. Within the `api.ts` util file, you can set your desired quiz subject and number of questions generated by changing the parameters within the `test()` function.
```typescript
const testObject: QuizResult | undefined = await generateQuiz(
        3, // Number of questions
        "Passport.js" // Quiz subject
    )
```
5. Compile the typescript. TypeScript was installed locally using --save-dev, so you can run the following command:
```bash
npx tsc
```
This will create a `dist` directory with the compiled JavaScript files as set in the `tsconfig.json` file.
6. Depending on you location in the terminal, you can run the compiled JavaScript file with one of these commands:
```bash
node api.js
```
```bash
node dist/api.js
```
```bash
node frontend/dist/api.js
```
This will output the generated quiz questions and answers in the terminal as seen in the `test()` function. The `generateQuiz()` function returns a `QuizResult` object with the following structure:
```typescript
interface QuizResult {
    quizTitle: string;
    questions: {
        questionText: string;
        options: string[];
        correctAnswerIndex: number;
    }[];
}
```